Keith Solie's Information Technology and Electronic Communications Security Guide (Research Document)
Copyright (c) Keith Solie, 2024. 
Free to Redistribute with Copyright Information. Modification Prohibited.
Disclaimer: This document is provided AS IS, and is intended for research purposes only.
Contact E-mail: ivymikew78@outlook.com
Created and Authored by Keith Solie.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Originally written in English and distributed as .txt using ANSI encoding for maximum compatibility.
Published on: February 4th 2024.
Last Modified: February 4th 2024.
Source: https://github.com/fusiontests/Security/blob/main/SECURITY.txt


-------Begin Table Of Contents-------
If you are reading this document digitally in it's original format,
A suggestion is to use the Find tool in your text viewer/editor.
In your find tool, enter #X, #X-Y, or #X-Y-Z where applicable, 
replacing X, Y and Z with their respective numbers in the table.

0-1 Author's Notes and Introduction
1 Smartphones and Related Devices
1-1 Using Multiple Phones
1-2 Smartphone Exploits and Vulnerabilities
2 Communication Security using Older Standards
2-1 Expiry of Old Cell Phones and Connection Standards
2-2 Satellite Phone Introduction
2-3 Satellite Phone Information and Availability
3 Linux Systems Information
3-1 Linux and Malware
3-2 Day Zero Exploits
4 Malware Information and Malware Prevention
4-1 Malware Size and Complexity
4-1-1 Modern Operating Systems and Malware
4-1-2 How Malware Tries to Evade Anti-Malware
4-2 Windows and Rootkits
4-3 Physical Attacks and Other Vulnerabilities
5 Safe Storage Volume Rules
5-1 Creating Formatted Partitions With Safe Storage Volume
5-1-1 Erasing, Creating, and Formatting Partitions on Windows  
5-1-2 Erasing, Creating, and Formatting Partitions on Linux
5-2 Preserving Availability of Old Media for Compatibility Use
5-2-1 Preserving Historic Computer Hardware and Software
6 Durability, Longevity, and Safety of External Data Storage Media
6-1 USB and Other Flash Media
6-2 Compact Disc (CD) and Optical Media
6-2-1 DVD Optical Media
6-2-2 Optical Media Security, Advantages and Drawbacks
6-3 Reliable External Data Storage Media Suggestions
7 Passwords
7-1 Password Creation Tips and Tricks
7-2 Two Factor Authentication (2FA) Suggestions
7-3 Password Security and Creating a Secure Password
7-4 LAMBDA: A Useful Acronym for Help with Password Creation 
8 Enhanced Security using Classic Offline Methods, Ciphers, and Cryptography.
8-1 Language Ciphers and Potential Vulnerability from Artificial Intelligence (AI)
9 How to Control Serious Malware Infections on Personal Computers
9-1 Attempting Cautious File Recovery
9-2 Malware Cleanup and Clearing of Data Drives
10 Extra Miscellaneous Advice
0-2 Final Notes

-------End Table Of Contents-------





#0-1. Author's Notes and Introduction: 
Below is a numbered list of sections that contain categorized information and security ideas. 
Some of the sections' information provides context for ideas in other sections. 
I recommend reading the entire document for a complete understanding of the information and ideas presented.
This document is intended to be informal in it's presentation.
It does not discredit any information or ideas written. 
The intention is to enlighten your own thinking and opinions.
Contained here are my secure communication ideas and methods. They are likely not all exclusive or unique.
This document started as my own compilation of useful information intended for personal use. 
All of the information contained here comes from my own personal experience.
That means, it includes my opinions and things I believe to be useful or of interest.
It evolved into something I consider important to make public for research purposes.
The intended audience for this document is: Anyone interested in security.
I hope all who read this find it useful, or at least learn something from it. 
This information is welcome to all developers, individuals, groups, governments, and businesses.
I request you use this in good faith. 
Please give due credit to myself if you wish to use this document as a reference.


Begin.


#1. Smartphones and Related Devices
Use a regular smartphone as a tool, but eliminate all the stuff you don't use. Avoid usage of the cloud.
Acceptable usage of the cloud: 
- only use it for data that isn't sensitive, which is not a privacy concern.
- Some sensitive data probably isn't as sensitive as you think, basically just a honeypot having it there.
- Most would be afraid to touch or mess with it. A temptation that would likely lead to them being busted.*
*- I would not recommend testing this though, as it is dangerous. 
Honestly the smartphones and related devices are fun and convenient. 
They are excellent tools, but don't have any expectations regarding true security with them.

#1-1. Using Multiple Phones
It's probably a good idea to actually have more than one smartphone if you want to use them. 
One for personal stuff, one or more for business, utility, privacy, greater security, or any combination of 
those. In addition, you might also want a Satellite phone for their great utility and enhanced security.
It may be a good idea to have a satellite phone at home, in the car, on your person,
or in some sort of secure location as a backup for if you're in a remote location or somehow cellular fails.
It's important to note that Satellite phones are usually expensive. Maintaining their useability, service,
and connection to their respective satellite networks is also expensive. More information on satellite 
phones, old non-smart cell phones, and other old school electronic communication methods in Section #2.

#1-2. Smartphone Exploits and Vulnerabilities
I know of some pretty nasty advanced exploits that exist or have existed on smartphones and related devices.
I don't really have a clue as to how one would perform them. I am going to leave such speculation out of 
this, because that's a big rabbit hole of it's own. I am pretty sure that once you end up with one of those
on your device, they add their code into every app they can. Makes it a real challenge to stop and clear it.
Might possibly be impossible? This is a thing with Apple devices anyways. The deal with Apple devices is, 
they're super secure by default. The app store is well managed. The problem is advanced exploits that hide. 
It's always those rootkits. So somehow if someone gets an exploit on there, it's all over.
Realistically it may be impossible for an individual to get rid of a rootkit on an Apple device. 
Maybe the folks at the genius bar can help, though who would know but them? 
The thing is, I jokingly called the iPhone a spyPhone for a reason.
If anyone did pull that crap, then Apple starts spying, and they see it! For good reasons, to try fixing
the problem and to hold the attacker(s) responsible.
It's the opposite situation with an android. The main vulnerability is installing 3rd party untrusted apps.
You can get malware from an app. It's not uncommon. There is some hope for you if this happens though.
With the last android I owned, you could wipe the entire kernel and start fresh. 
Completely fresh like the factory just finished loading it brand new. This was able to be
performed all independently. With that thought, android might be a better choice if you're 
very tech savvy or like to do repairs and fixes on your own. 
I am not sure if this is dependent on the android device or not, 
or if it's entirely valid and currently relevant information for most or all androids.
I really don't have many modern smartphones to test this on, or malware samples to try removing.
Based on that, I guess you may be able to tell I don't have the resources to do in depth testing/research.
And there's always those day-zero exploits. That's discussed in Section #3.

#2. Communication Security using Older Standards
- For advanced security, use a custom language, cipher or form of cryptography to obscure your stored data.
- This can apply to most communication, but it's something that requires more care. 
- An old school phone would seem like a good idea. Aren't those difficult to hack? You can't install apps!
Well, there's a problem with that idea now! If necessary, think satellite phone instead.

#2-1. Expiry of Old Cell Phones and Connection Standards 
Old cell phones are useless in some places, such as the United States and Canada. 
It's not a reliable option. At this time old 2G and 3G standards will likely disappear globally, making the 
old cell phone thing irrelevant. This leads us to the satellite phone.
If you actually need secure communication that avoids cell networks in US and Canada, 
the only option for wireless, global range is a satellite phone. Much more costly but probably worth it.
 
#2-2. Satellite Phone Introduction 
Satellite phones have many advantages and utilities, and owning one is a good idea 
if you travel to/live in remote areas. Or if you can't rely on cell towers and routing for whatever reason. 
Based on my limited research, services such as Globalstar have solid global coverage and for example offer
global service for $1080/yr offering 900 minutes and SMS messages. Do your own research and find the best
device and service provider for your needs. Costs may vary depending on your region and selected provider.

#2-3. Satellite Phone Information and Availability
An interesting note is if a country or area prohibits you from bringing or keeping a satellite phone, 
it's probably not a safe place or a place you want to be. Seeing as satellite phones connect directly to 
an independent satellite network, it makes hacking or surveliance through this communication difficult. 
This doesn't give freedom to violate laws or discuss doing so in the place you operate one of these devices.
However, any government that seeks to restrict or prohibit satellite phones likely wants full control for 
malicious purpose. Or, they seek to restrict citizens' and visitors' communications for 
similar malicious purpose. I think this may be a better indicator of a region's safety and authoritarianism 
than what any publicly available media suggests. 
Ask the question: Can you bring and operate your own satellite phone? Yes or No? Yes means probably safe.
May not be a perfect indicator but likely an actual solid reference.

#3. Linux Systems Information
Linux is good but be sure of what distribution you run. Nice thing is most old and simple popular
windows and DOS apps will run on it. Most programs and code on linux are open source, so if you want to be 
sure compile yourself. Or check md5 signatures at the least. 
*Also if it's teeny tiny it probably isnt malware.

#3-1. Linux and Malware 
Many people think that Linux is immune to malware. I wouldn't count on it! They always get you when
you let your guard down. A good example of malicious attacks that catch you off guard
are frequently known as day-zero exploits. Let's continue and discuss what day-zero exploits are.

#3-2. Day Zero Exploits 
Day zero exploits are basically hidden exploits that individuals or groups are witholding for special
purpose or attacks. They can vary in their capability, danger, and ease of resolution. The term day zero
exploit is a reference to the nature of some of the vulnerabilities, being ones that are patched or fixed
on the "day zero", or first day/hours of which they are used. This makes timing and execution of 
these exploits and related attacks critical to avoid a waste or failure. This is because security 
specialists often treat these problems with utmost importance and fix them as soon as possible. 
Typically, high value targets are the victims of such attacks and exploits, 
given the value and capabilities associated with many day zero exploits. Also because they're usually
only good for a short period of time, hackers have to choose their targets wisely with these exploits.

#4. Malware Information and Malware Prevention
I don't believe there's much tiny malicious code that can evade anti virus detection at this point. 
Not these days with modern operating systems and software/hardware. I would not count on it though. 
If I had to guess the max truly safe file size, it would probably be around 64MB. Generously, 128MB.
In my opinion that's totally safe on anything with security updates and antimalware from 2020 or newer. 
I haven't done complete research myself. So I am not exactly sure about this. I think flash media with
a small available formatted capacity is probably the best way to transfer files. It is too difficult 
to hide malware on there without it being noticed. So personally I think the max you would want to use 
in that case is 256MB. 512MB and larger, malware might be able to hide itself or
something in there but it would be noticeable if you knew what to look out for. Examples are 
suspiciously small available space, unusually large file size, and invalid file signatures that don't match.

#4-1. Malware Size Increases
Malicious code is often following a trend of increased data consumption and file size. To put it simply,
Anti-virus and Anti-malware software is very good at it's job. The software is always continuing to improve.
This makes it harder for malware to hide itself in a file system or in a computer's memory. 
The only straightforward way for it to hide is to obscure it's code, function, and identity.
More information on why this is the case below.

#4-1-1. Malware's Increasing Complexity and Objectives
Increased complexity of operating systems require malware's code to be more intricate in order to meet
it's objectives. These goals that malware tries to achieve are things such as:
surveilance, data destruction, data encryption, data transfer, operating system damage, 
system inoperability, control over system functions, modification of data, control of drivers, 
damage to hardware, creating copies or backups of itself, hiding its own presence, 
performing hidden communications, infecting files, and infecting other devices.
This can cause larger file size for malware, especially with the more included functionality it posesses.

#4-1-2. How Malware Evades Detection
Advancements in anti-malware technology make malicious code easier to detect. This requires creators 
and distributors of malware to find ways to hide it's presence and evade detection. 
The easiest way for malware to sneak on a device with minimum file size is to do one thing: 
download the program that does the real work. 
Obviously this would require a device with networking capabilities. Another thing to note is, this is a
common type of program that anti-malware software and firewalls are designed to detect, prevent, and stop.
In order to evade detection, most malware requires an increase in file size. 
Examples of how malware hides it's presence:
- Adding garbage code, or useless functions, to the malware's functional programming. Increases file size.
- Encryption. The encryption used is often complex and extensive, resulting in much larger file size than
necessary for the malware's actual working code. As a result of this, a majority of most malware's storage
consumption is from the complex and extensive encryption needed to hide from anti-malware software.

#4-2. Windows and Rootkits 
I think the smallest rootkit that can effectively get windows 7 and up is around 200MB. However this 
is only true if that version of windows is fully up to date with all the security patches, and an effective
quality anti-virus software and firewall exists. I would not recommend using windows 8 or 8.1 at all. 
Anything older than windows 7 is not safe, and should not be connected to the internet. 
Even connecting windows 7 to the internet at this point is very ill advise. 
If we're going based off rootkit prevention, and these conditions are met, any data storage under 200MB 
is almost 100% a safe choice. I would argue personally if you knew your stuff anything 2GB or less is 
acceptable, provided you watch the file system carefully on those. Some good rules being no unsigned, 
unchecked or unverified files greater than 150MB. Verifying md5 hash is always a good idea.
If you're careful about what files you store on that media, I believe it's really hard for a rootkit to 
hide on media of that size. Obviously the smaller the better, the closer to 200MB or less the safer.

#4-3. Physical Attacks and Other Vulnerabilities 
An important suggestion is to keep all of your USB ports and forms of physical file transfer secure.
One of the most common ways hackers get in is by using an infected data drive of their own to physically
sneak malware on your device. Avoid short-range file transfer through technology such as bluetooth.
Always disable these capabilities if possible, or even better lock them behind physical or password 
verification. Never set your computer or device to automatically execute, play, or open media from an
external data source. If this behaviour exists, disable it if possible. The only exception is verified
secure bootable media. Always use a secure password or PIN on your devices, and lock the device when you
are away or not watching your device.

#5. Safe Storage Volume Rules
In newer computers, the ability to store and hide malware lies in storage capacity of the partition(s).
Greater formatted storage volume means:
- Can contain more advanced/capable malware.*
- Easier to hide malware or large malware because it's not usually taking up needed space. Less noticed.*
*This applies to ALL formatted, useable computer data storage.
Expanding on what was mentioned before, in todays age with more modern computers:
LESS than or EQUAL to 64MB is TOTALLY SAFE
LESS than or EQUAL to 200MB is MOSTLY SAFE
GREATER than 200MB is ACCEPTABLE, BUT POSSIBLY UNSAFE. MONITOR AVAILABLE CAPACITY CLOSELY.
GREATER than 2GB becomes DIFFICULT TO MONITOR.
Anything with greater formatted capacity than a dual-layer DVD (around 8.5GB), REQUIRES EXTREME CAUTION.

#5-1. Creating Formatted Partitions With Safe Storage Volume
If you have spare external data drives, it's a good idea to use a safe file system for valuable
documents and for secure file transfer. This means to unallocate any large volume partitions, and 
create small partitions with a desired safe storage volume indicated previously.
The number of small partitions you create will depend on your needs and the computer file systems' ability.
Below are instructions for re-allocating memory and partitioning a larger capacity data drive.

#5-1-1. Erasing, Creating, and Formatting Partitions on Windows
On Windows, use "diskmgmt.msc". Re-format the drive to use the file system you need.
Generally, FAT32 is most compatible, but restrictive. exFAT and NTFS are more capable.
Warning: This will erase everything on the data drive.
An easy method I use to create a single partition with the restricted data capacity is:
Right click on the data drive in the bottom panel and select the option "Shrink Volume..."
Enter your desired available data capacity in the area labeled
"Enter the amount of space to shrink in MB:" and click Shrink
Right click on that new unallocated partition and select the option "New Simple Volume..."
Click "Next" and continue until you see the "Specify Volume Size" interface. 
Leave the "Simple volume size in MB:" area at the default full amount. Click "Next".
You may assign the available drive letter of your choice. Select your desired formatting settings
and proceed by clicking "Next". If this is all you wanted to do, right click the remaining
large partition or empty space and select the option "Shrink Volume..." again.
This time, enter the maximum available capacity in the area labelled
"Enter the amount of space to shrink in MB:" and click Shrink.
Now you have only the restricted capacity you created on your data drive available for use.
The extra space is unallocated and unusable unless formatted into one or more additional partitions.
If you have repeated this job to create multiple small partitions, you may run out of drive letters. 
In that situation, if available, proceed using the option to mount in a selected empty folder.

#5-1-2. Erasing, Creating, and Formatting Partitions on Linux 
If you are using Linux, find the respective disk utility, select your desired data drive,
delete existing partitions if they're unsuitable, and create a new partition of your desired size.
Linux distributions can vary in how this job is performed, which is why these instructions are general.
Personally I have found it easier and less confusing to do this job on some Linux distributions.

!#5-2. Preserving Availability of Old Media for Compatibility Use
I ask that people use the steps in 5-1-x to create these safe partitions. Please do not
buy old low capacity media. This media is getting harder to find and necessary for old hardware and systems.
It is not necessary for newer hardware, software, and operating systems. For respect of those
that still require or use old computers, do not hoard or buy this old media.
The only exception is if you're using, or need to use, one of these pieces of history.
I wish to retain it's availability for those who need it for whatever necessary purpose.
New data storage media is totally incompatible and non-functional on these outdated systems.
In some cases, these old computers and systems are all that's available for the users. 
Some reasons might include cost, availability, and necessary compatibility for old exclusive programs.
In addition, they are excellent examples of our information technology and computer history.
They can also provide great opportunities for learning, even in the modern age of computing devices.

!#5-2-1. Preserving Historic Computer Hardware and Software
Please DO NOT destroy any of this old media or hardware. Or copies of software.
Ask yourself if people 1000 years ago would appreciate you destroying part of their history?
Would you appreciate the destruction of something that represents your hard work and efforts?
Some day people will look back on the early days of computers. 
That's going to be ancient history eventually. A curiosity for those who weren't present
to experience it. Some may not see it yet. But think about something from history you were
able to witness, that provoked curiosity and brought a new perspective. I am sure you would
be upset if it were to dissapear somehow. 

#6. Durability, Longevity, and Safety of Data Storage Media
This section is about external data storage media, includng the various advantages and 
drawbacks to different commonly available types. The main focus is security and longevity.
Ease of use and functionality are also mentioned.

#6-1. USB and Other Flash Media
I know that USB flash drives can be killed if plugged into the wrong thing. 
I am pretty sure that regular full size SD cards are unkillable, unless you physically destroy them. 
I just can't think of any SD card reader that can actually damage one with a voltage/current. 
Unless you plugged it into some random unknown reader which I would never do. 
Always use your own external reader or one built into a legitimate PC? 
They may have some kind of regulation on them that switches them off if the wrong
power is applied but I would have to do more research on that. I know most USB flash drives just trust
that the USB controller they're plugged into is legitimate. I have even had normal USB ports kill
those before, I think it was an old not so great USB 2.0 flash drive into a USB 3.0 port, that's the 
memorable one. Oh it's happened twice I think. I don't know. One time it actually killed those USB ports
as well.

#6-2. Compact Disc (CD) and Optical Media
Compact Disc (CD) are an option for secure data storage. CD-R is the best if you don't want them to be
modified after burning, and CD-RW if you want to rewrite to them. The max capacity is around 700-870MB. This
makes it pretty hard to hide serious malware for newer systems. The disadvantage here is not many computers
at this time are being manufactured with optical disc drives. There's one advantage to this, which is
malware that targets burning/writing to optical media is becoming or has become less popular.

#6-2-1. DVD Optical Media
DVD is also a great choice where you require larger volumes of data to be stored. The standards are:
- 4.7GB (single-sided, single-layer  common), 8.5GB (single-sided, double-layer), 
- 9.4GB (double-sided, single-layer), 17.08GB (double-sided, double-layer). - CD: 700-870MB.
Again, the storage capacity safety rule (Section #5) still applies here.  

#6-2-2. Optical Media Security, Advantages and Drawbacks
Optical discs last a long time unless you physically damage them, especially if it's write once/read 
only. The only problem is the actual disc drives are the weak point. Maybe this doesn't apply as much to
the really high end expensive ones? I have never tested or researched that. Security can be questionable 
with some optical discs. Depending on how data is written or it's formatted, or the type of optical disc.
Optical discs with greater storage volume have greater risks, as Section #5 always applies.
I know that a disc drive has to deliberately burn the information onto the disc. Makes it much harder
for a computer to stealth read/write to and from the disc. Always impossible without the drive spooling
up and doing it's thing. I guess the only way for malware to get on those is if:
- it's already contained in the files you're burning
- whatever you're using to burn to the disc is hacked
- you don't pay attention, leave a read/write disc in the drive, and malware decides it has the
courage to try and write to it or read from it anyways.
- some kind of real spooky one where it sneaks the malware into the burning process with regular files.
Order of risk, with the highest risk variants always being read/write, write once being lowest risk.
Greatest risk to least risk: Blu-ray > High Capacity DVD > DVD > CD > CD ROM.

#6-3. Reliable External Data Storage Media Suggestions
My personal recommendations are the standard full-size SD card and the CD-R or CD-RW. 
Number one is standard full-size SD cards. They're small, easy to carry,
durable, can fit in a wallet, a phone case, or just about anywhere. They also have variable storage capacity 
that can be easily partitioned into safe formatted volumes of your choice. Can be set read/write or read only.
Number two is the CD-R (write once) or CD-RW (re-writable). Affordable and ideal for long term storage.
As long as Section #5 is followed, there's not much to worry about regarding CD-R or CD-RW security. 
The exception is they can't be used if you don't have an optical drive. I would recommend
purchasing or obtaining an external optical drive if you don't already have one. They are a great utility.

#7. Passwords
(Please don't use any of these example reference passwords for security reasons.)
(Unless you wanted to experiment and see if hackers try and guess them by assuming someone will use them.)
At this time because of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Ideally use a form of two factor authentication (2FA)  
AND/OR A very complicated password. One that would be written down on paper. The only reason not to write
it down is if you have total confidence in your memory and/or you don't want any paper copies existing
for whatever reason, maybe a risk of theft or being lost. It's ill advise to store passwords electronically.
FOR MAXIMUM SECURITY It should be:
- As long as possible
- Use as many different characters as possible
- Avoid using any common words or phrases, especially common phrases.

#7-1. Password Creation Tips and Tricks
I think repeating STRINGS (words/characters/numbers) might be a good trick. Only if it's mixed with a 
lot of randomness or variable content. If I was an AI designed to guess passwords, I sure wouldn't think 
someone would use something like "DuckDUCKduckLUCKluckLuck" in their password sequentially like that. Not 
usually how a human would make a password, at least not a normal one. The idea here is repeated STRINGS.
A good thing to note is most artificial intelligence designed to guess passwords, follows 
what "normal human" passwords look like. A simple trick could be writing your password like a crazy person. 
Artificial Intelligence generally are not designed to follow any unusual password creation techniques.
If they wanted to add this ability, it could be much slower and less effective at cracking the easy ones.
If they make a password guessing AI too complicated it becomes only slightly better than an old bruteforce.
Actually, if you create your passwords with the intention of evading password guessing AI, 
that AI may be even less effective than old school bruteforce, which is just guessing all possible
strings of characters - Character by character, string by string. This is why long passwords will always
be superior. It takes much longer to guess every possible combination in a 16 character string, 
compared to the time it takes to guess an 8 character string.

#7-2. Two Factor Authentication (2FA) Suggestions 
For two factor authentication (2FA), if it's going to use a phone number, this is where a more secure 
phone can be important. Use any phone without extra apps and minimal built in features/apps. 
Or use a satellite phone! Recieve that code or verification through SMS or Phone on one of those devices, 
so it can't be read by infiltrating spyware or malware. 

#7-3. Password Security and Creating a Secure Password
The primary rule to passwords is to have something UNIQUE. 
There's no rule against using similar passwords. Be careful though, using similar passwords carry great risk 
if done improperly. If your two passwords are something like "ScoobyDoo1" and "ScoobyDoo2", that's no good. 
If you happen to be a target, any accounts associated with you that use similar passwords will be easy to 
break into if one of those passwords are found. Say those were your passwords, if you wanted them to remain 
similar and be more secure, you could try something like: "scoobydooLOVESyou2" and "SCOOBYDOOlikesME1", 
just for an easy example. If you are going to use similar passwords, I advise only using them 
for things of lesser security concern.  And make those similar passwords fundamentally different enough so 
that one password can't be guessed easily from another. Anything you want maximum security for should have a 
unique password. An alternate and effective strategy is to use a totally random string and write it down 
in case you can't remember. Example: "2F!a9*3X)L0l&Z82@bbEy;g42o6^i5"

#7-4. LAMBDA: A Useful Acronym for Help with Password Creation 
An acronym for strong passwords: LAMBDA! (like the symbol in Half-Life, from the Greek alphabet.)
The first letters are the most important descending to the least important.
L : Long (Many characters)
A : Amusing (Optional, but it's usually easier to remember an amusing password)
M : Memorable (Very good idea for it to be memorable)
B : Bizzare (Unusual, difficult for someone/something to guess)
D : Distorted (Obscured - gramatically incorrect, random use of capitals, numbers in place of letters, etc)
A : Absurd (Maybe try to think like a crazy person)
Reference example that follows all of LAMBDA: "LuckYLUCKYducks!D0NTcHUCk@TheZ002?"

#8. Enhanced Security using Classic Offline Methods, Ciphers, and Cryptography.
Offline cryptography, ciphers! Make sure all the people you know, are in the know! That they understand. 
The only problem is there's the human leak problem. If the wrong person knows your language/cipher, 
you're toast! But at least it's far more difficult to have that leak into the wrong hands. 
And what capable person is going to spend that much effort trying to decrypt your custom cipher or language?
They would have to be very determined. Probably more so than a computer hacker I would think. 
As long as you avoid using it on the internet or having it leak onto the internet, 
it's unlikely an Artificial Intelligence (AI) could try at breaking the cipher and 
guess what you're really saying or trying to encrypt.

#8-1. Language Ciphers and Potential Vulnerability from Artificial Intelligence (AI)
I mention Artificial Intelligence (AI) because many of them are learning or are being developed to 
follow language patterns. Since a language cipher usually follows some sort of grammar structure and 
bears similarity to human language, it's possible for an Artificial Intelligence (AI) to make potentially 
accurate guesses on what's being said if it has enough input to process. 
I am not going to provide any examples or instruction on how to develop your own ciphers or 
cryptography, example information can be found elsewhere. This kind of thing is more personal and exclusive 
to the person(s) who create and use it. There's many ways you can go about it, some are simple and easy to 
remember. Other methods and techniques are more complicated. 
And within that there's varying levels of cipher or encryption strength.
Some are difficult to decipher, others are easy. 
It's strength can also depend on the individual(s) or machine trying to break it.

#9. How to Control Serious Malware Infections on Personal Computers
If your device has been hacked, and you think there's a rootkit or deep rooted "invisible" malware.
Find out if it's possible to do some kind of rom firmware exploit with it's CPU(s) or Microprocessor(s)
Condition (1)- If no, Throw out all the data drives, Disconnect the RAM, Etc.
Condition (2)- If yes, Throw it in a volcano! Replace it! DO NOT connect or load any files from
any external data drives/memory previously used on that device if they have a large usable storage volume, 
as mentioned in Section #5.

#9-1. Attempting Cautious File Recovery
If you desperately need specific files from that storage, test and check on a 
completely offline only device. Make sure that device is never connected to the internet, 
and doesn't hold anything of value or any sensitive information.
Keep in mind that the device you decide to do this on, will never be safe in the case of Condition 2. 
UNLESS you use a different operating system! This is why you should have a Linux PC. 
Windows rootkits are useless on Linux and same goes the other way around. I still think the possibility
exists that some extreme hacker may have bundled rootkits for different operating systems together.
So be careful.
In any case, all data drives connected during the duration of the infection that don't follow Section #5 
safe max partition rules should be wiped for security reasons, and discarded if desired. Anything that
violates the specified maximum safe file size in Section #5 should be treated as probably malicious. 
The only realistic exception is if you can completely verify the file's signature and integrity. 
The safest option is to always wipe and discard these regardless. Always follow the safe storage volume rule 
in Section #5 if you need to transfer important files.

#9-2. Malware Cleanup and Clearing of Data Drives
It is possible with the right tools that you may be able to completely wipe/erase a data drive that 
contains serious malware such as a rootkit. After this it may be safe to re-use, 
however you will lose any and all data on that drive that couldn't be safely backed up or transfered. 
I would only recommend this if you have adequate information security experience and abilities.
The only 100% safe option is to wipe, destroy, and discard the infected data drive(s) containing malware. 

#10. Extra Miscellaneous Advice
Good luck. Keep learning. Stay safe. Be smart. 
And don't be afraid to take a break from this shit for your own sanity.
Power off exists for a good reason. And if it won't shut off, hold the power button down until it does.


Fin.


#0-2. Final Notes 
Truthfully, I do not have access to or possess every required resource needed to test and verify
all of the information and ideas presented in this document. 
Everything in this text is drawn from my own personal experience and thinking, with some verified by 
limited research from various sources easily acessible on public internet. 
I did my best to verify as much as possible from my own testing with 
the limited number of devices I own and have access to.
My recommendation is to do your own independent research if you have any doubts or questions regarding
the information and ideas within this document. 
I gave my best efforts to format this .txt document in it's best presentable form, however
using raw .txt holds many limitations regarding standards for professional document formatting.
I chose this format to provide maximum accessibility, compatibility, and ease of transfer across
as many devices as possible. Personally, for this document I favor these qualities over stylistic ones.

Thank you for reading. 
Below are some quotes of mine. My wish is for them to inspire some positive reinforcement. 



"Strength Through Great Faith."
"Try To Be Optimist. Try Your Best. Be Educated. Know Your History. Practice Welfare For Others."
"Paranoia does not grant you peace of mind. It is only earned through progress."
"Safe Healing."
- Keith Solie.




